https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/dynamic-host-configuration-protocol-dhcp/?ref=lbp

DHCP discover message – 
This is a first message generated in the communication process between server and client. This message is generated by Client host in order to discover if there is any DHCP server/servers are present in a network or not. This message is broadcasted to all devices present in a network to find the DHCP server. This message is 342 or 576 bytes long 

As shown in the figure, source MAC address (client PC) is 08002B2EAF2A, destination MAC address(server) is FFFFFFFFFFFF, source IP address is 0.0.0.0(because PC has no IP address till now) and destination IP address is 255.255.255.255 (IP address used for broadcasting). As the discover message is broadcast to find out the DHCP server or servers in the network therefore broadcast IP address and MAC address is used.


2

DHCP offer message – 
The server will respond to host in this message specifying the unleased IP address and other TCP configuration information. This message is broadcasted by server. Size of message is 342 bytes. If there are more than one DHCP servers present in the network then client host will accept the first DHCP OFFER message it receives. Also a server ID is specified in the packet in order to identify the server. 


3

DHCP request message – 
When a client receives a offer message, it responds by broadcasting a DHCP request message. The client will produce a  gratuitous ARP in order to find if there is any other host present in the network with same IP address. If there is no reply by other host, then there is no host with same TCP configuration in the network and the message is broadcasted to server showing the acceptance of IP address .A Client ID is also added in this message. 

Now, the request message is broadcast by the client PC therefore source IP address is 0.0.0.0(as the client has no IP right now) and destination IP address is 255.255.255.255 (broadcast IP address) and source MAC address is 08002B2EAF2A (PC MAC address) and destination MAC address is FFFFFFFFFFFF. 

Note – This message is broadcast after the ARP request broadcast by the PC to find out whether any other host is not using that offered IP. If there is no reply, then the client host broadcast the DHCP request message for the server showing the acceptance of IP address and Other TCP/IP Configuration. 
 

DHCP acknowledgement message – 
In response to the request message received, the server will make an entry with specified client ID and bind the IP address offered with lease time. Now, the client will have the IP address provided by server. 